add Jan 22 blog post (#730)
fluxcd/website: content/en/blog/2022-01-31-january-update/index.md

---
author: dholbach
date: 2022-01-31 9:30:00+00:00
title: January 2022 Update
description: New Flux and Flagger releases bring more security, terraform-controller team wants feedback, Flux articles and docs, upcoming Flux events helping you get started and more.
url: /blog/2022/01/january-update/
resources:
- src: "**.png"

>   title: "Image #:counter"

Author: For some reason the preview image is not shown on https://deploy-preview-730--fluxcd.netlify.app/blog/ - will figure it out.

{{< imgproc flagger-kuma-canary Resize 600x >}}
{{< /imgproc >}}

To differentiate alerts based on the cluster name, you can configure
Flagger with the `-cluster-name=my-cluster` command flag, or with Helm
`--set clusterName=my-cluster`.

In addition to that, Flagger now publishes a Software Bill of Materials
(SBOM) for every release and we added the cluster name to flagger
comment arguments for altering.

### Security news

Security was a big focus for us in the past weeks. If you take a look at
the ["Follow-Up" project](https://github.com/orgs/fluxcd/projects/5) after
the [CNCF-funded audit](/blog/2021-11-10-flux-security-audit/),
you will notice that almost all the tasks have been done (or are indeed
very close). It's largely the fuzzing work which is close to land and
some additional documentation. 2.5 months after the audit concluded we
are quite happy with where we have arrived - having the analysis of the
auditors in front of us gave us a solid focus.

In the 0.26 release of Flux, we applied the [restricted pod security
standard](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/#restricted)

> to controllers like [source-controller](https://github.com/fluxcd/source-controller/pull/553).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to all controllers.
```

> In practice this will mean:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In practice this means:
```

- all Linux capabilities were dropped
- the root filesystem was set to read-only
- the `seccomp` profile was set to the runtime default
- run as non-root was enabled
- the filesystem group was set to 1337
- the user and group ID was set to 65534

> Flux will also enable `seccomp` by default across all controllers. Why is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flux also enables the Seccomp runtime default across all controllers. Why is
```

which will add support for ed25519 for both client authentication and
hostKey verification.

### A word on RFCs

After reviews from all maintainers, [RFC-0001
Authorization](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs/0001-authorization)
is merged. This RFC describes in detail, for [Flux version
0.24](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/releases/tag/v0.24.0),
how Flux determines which operations are allowed to proceed, and how
this interacts with Kubernetes\' access control.

To this point, the Flux project has provided [examples of how to make a
multi-tenant
system](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-multi-tenancy/tree/v0.1.0),
but not explained exactly how they relate to Flux\'s authorization
model; nor has the authorization model itself been documented. Further
work on support for multi-tenancy, among other things, requires a full
account of Flux\'s authorization model as a baseline.

**Goals**: Give a comprehensive account of Flux\'s authorization model

**Non-Goals**: Justify the model as it stands; this RFC simply records
the state as at v0.24.

#### Flux in-flight RFCs

[https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/labels/area%2FRFC](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/labels/area%2FRFC)

> XXX - help...??

Author: @fluxcd/flux2-maintainers what would you like me to say about the in-flight RFCs?

Reviewer: RFCs are out of date as they don't reflect the changes in flux2 0.26. I don't have time to update all the RFC today, so we either postpone the blog post until I fix them or we leave them out.

Author: Maybe let's do them separately - it might be a good idea to do a separate blog post and list to the mailing list about this...?

Reviewer: yeap

Author: super... :+1:
